---
layout: post
title:  "Strat 3"
date:   2014-12-29
categories: project strat3
---


# What is Strat3

Strat3 is a generic backtester. Once a strategy is implemented it
is compiled as a dynamic library and can be loaded in Strat3 without recompilation.
Strat3 will then simulate the market and produce a rapport of performance
of the given strategy (multiple  strategies can be given for comparison).

# What makes Strat3 special ?

It was build with flexibility in mind. Each strategy is composed of multiple modules that can be
customized in order to better diagnostic performance. For example, a `Portfolio` entity can be used to
test out how a specific strategy react when trading treshold are modified.

* `Strategy` is used to implement the theoretical strategy. This entity returns a matrix of weight that will be used by the portfolio class to determine if trades need to be made.
* `Portfolio` determine when trade should be made based on the result returned by a strategy and make them.

    * Does the new weight returned by the strategy is sufficiently different
    for a transaction to happen
    * Should a Stop order also be placed ?
    * etc..

* `Market Engine`, the market engine satisfy orders made by the strategy's portfolio
it can be as simple as `fill-all no-cost` to `bid-ask ~ Distribution() and $ XX /trade`. This allows us to test out how a specific strategy react in different market situation.

* Finally, each steps are logged. This allows us to produce a comprehensive
rapport on the strategy. Tex and HTML rapport can be produced.

# Extensive Reporting

Strat3 offers a default report format that can be seen below. 
Strat3 logged data can easily be accessed to generate new statistics and reports. 

### Table of content
![1]

### Risk Section
![3]
![4]

### Full report examples

* [2015-01-05 Report Example Tex][12]
* [2015-01-05 Report Example HTML][11]

# Configure file

Since configuring strat3 can be tedious a command line program is available which enables you
to easily backtest compiled strategies. Here is an example of a correct configuration file.

	{
	    "Strategies":{
	        "MyStrategy":{
	            "strategy":{
	                "file": "./StandardStrategy.dll",
	                "init_struct": "None",
	                "window": 10,
	                "frequency": 2,
	                "rebalanced": true 
	            },
	            "portfolio":{
	                "file": "./StandardPortfolio.dll",
	                "init_struct": "None",
	                "cash":1000
	            }
	        }
	    },
	
	    "Backtest":{
	        "data": {
	            "price":{
	                "file": "../../data/data.csv",
	                "type": "csv",
	                "price_matrix": true
	            }
	        },
	        "dates": "nothing",
	        "run": "all"
	    },
	
	    "Report":{
	        "type": "pdf",
	        "email": "myemail@email.com",
	        "extended": true,
	        "all_in_one": true
	    }
	}

# Planned

* Strat3 as a Web service
* Remplace Gnuplot as visualization package.
* Real time plotting 


[1]: /assets/btt1.PNG
[2]: /assets/btt2.PNG
[3]: /assets/btt3.PNG
[4]: /assets/btt4.PNG
[5]: /assets/btt5.PNG

[6]: http://www.gnuplot.info/

[11]: /projects/Strat3_report.html
[12]: /projects/strat3_report.pdf
